Department of Information Technology 
TE DSBDAL PRACTICAL LIST 
Practical 
No. 
Title 
1.  Design a distributed application using MapReduce  
(Using Java) which processes a log file of a system. List out the users who 
have logged for maximum period on the system. Use simple log file from the 
Internet and process it using a pseudo distribution mode on Hadoop 
platform. 
2.  Write an application using HiveQL for flight information system which will 
include a. Creating, Dropping, and altering Database tables. b. Creating an 
external Hive table. c. Load table with data, insert new values and field in the 
table, Join tables with Hive d. Create index on Flight Information Table e. 
Find the average departure delay per day in 2008. 
3.  Perform the following operations using Python on the Facebook metrics data 
sets a. Create data subsets b. Merge Data c. Sort Data d. Transposing Data e. 
Shape and reshape Data 
4.  Perform the following operations using Python on the Air quality and Heart 
Diseases data sets a. Data cleaning b. Data integration c. Data transformation 
d. Error correcting e. Data model building 
5.  Integrate Python and Hadoop and perform the following operations on 
forest fire dataset a. Data analysis using the Map Reduce in PyHadoop 
6.  Visualize the data using Python libraries matplotlib, seaborn by plotting the 
graphs for on the Air quality and Heart Diseases data sets. 
7.  Visualize the data using Python libraries matplotlib, seaborn by plotting the 
graphs for forest fire dataset 
8.  Perform the following data visualization operations using Tableau on Adult 
datasets.  
a. 1D (Linear) Data visualization b. 2D (Planar) Data Visualization c. 3D 
(Volumetric) Data Visualization d. Temporal Data Visualization e. 
Multidimensional Data Visualization f. Tree/ Hierarchical Data visualization 
g. Network Data visualization 
9.  Perform the following data visualization operations using Tableau on Iris 
dataset. a. 1D (Linear) Data visualization b. 2D (Planar) Data Visualization c. 
3D (Volumetric) Data Visualization d. Temporal Data Visualization e. 
Multidimensional Data Visualization f. Tree/ Hierarchical Data visualization 
g. Network Data visualization 